We have 22 sections here, seems like
a lot and that's because it kind of is.
[LAUGH] But we'll get through this and
yeah, we'll go ahead and
get into the introduction of the course.
So, really, really excited about this.
Of all the courses that I've taught,
this is one I've definitely
put the most time into.
And this is a particularly
difficult subject to teach,
just because I've been doing programming
for a really, really long time.
And, so I have forgotten what it's
like to learn how to write code.
So, I have all these like layers
of knowledge in my head and
I it's hard for
me to pull them back to say like okay,
how can I speak to someone that doesn't
have the same vocabulary that I do, right?
Something that I spent years and
years taking for granted.
So, your responsibility today both online
and in-person is to keep me honest.
So, if I'm using terminology
that you don't understand or
acronyms that you don't understand,
it's not that I'm trying to be a jerk.
It's not that I'm trying
to inflate my own ego.
My ego is plenty big, believe me.
It's because it's really difficult
to pull back those layers and
realize that what I'm saying is
not vocabulary that you have.
But that being said, I worked really,
really hard to try and
put this on common terms terminology.
So hopefully, that works out, okay?
So, there are some tips here
to succeed in this course.
You don't have to be a wizard
of math to write coding.
In fact, the two subjects in my
opinion are quite orthogonal,
in the sense that they're not.
You've been great at math and
terrible programming and
be great at programming and
terrible at math.
I'm definitely the latter
of those two things.
I don't know if I'm great at programming,
but I'm not very good at math.
And so, that's why a lot of times
when people are approaching coding,
that's one of the first things that I hear
is like I wasn't very good at math, or
they kind of try and
relate this back to math.
And like, there are mathematical things in
programming like if you are going to do
like data science and things like that,
but that's not necessarily.
You're not gonna be doing like calculus,
right?
I don't think I've ever done
calculus with programming.
So, that's something that you should
disabuse yourself of, like right now,
like especially, what we're doing today,
doesn't have a lot to do with math.
And like I say here, in fact,
I see many artists, lawyers,
linguists that actually have
great success writing code.
So yeah, just know that like,
you can definitely do this.
This is open to everyone.
In fact, I would say this is actually more
similar to learning a foreign language
than it is to learning than
it is to learning math.
In the sense that you learn a new
way of expressing yourself that you
have an idea in your head and you want
to express that idea basically as code.
It's the same thing like,
when you're learning a language,
you have this amorphous idea of like
what you want to say to the person and
you have to use grammar to express that.
I would say that's
probably a closer analogy.
So, that being said,
what you're going to do today is hard.
[LAUGH] And so,
that there's no two ways about it, but
learning to how to code
is not a simple thing.
It's actually quite difficult and so,
I guarantee you like going through and
learning some of these things.
They're just gonna,
like come up to us like, this is hard.
I don't get this, and then you
start kind of going to the spirals,
like I should get this or I can see
what this other person's doing, and
they get it and I don't get it yet.
Don't, don't go there, like it's not
a useful place to be in your brains.
Don't compare yourself to other people,
don't feel like you should
be getting things like you either
do get it or you don't get it.
And both of those things are okay, right?
There's no right way to do this.
There's no correct speed
that you should be going at.
So, just learn on your own pace,
learn on your own terms.
And sometimes you have to recognize like,
my brain is exhausted at this moment in
time and I need to stop, take a break,
go for a walk,
all that kind of stuff before coming back.
So, just like wrecking,
like recognize your own feelings and
how you're doing and
kinda take stock of that as we're going.
And just like, just take it easy,
I think that's kind of what
I'm trying to say here.
This one's really important right here.
Never be afraid to Google anything and
everything.
I think I kinda got this
feeling from school,
where I felt like if I was Googling
something it means I was cheating.
But just Google everything,
it's not cheating,
in fact it's actually requirement.
Part of what you're learning
today is how to Google things.
In fact, that's kind of what it
is to be a programmer is like,
we're just giving you additional
vocabulary of how to Google things.
You're a professional Googler today.
So please, please, like at any time,
if you don't remember something,
if you don't remember the order,
something goes in, all that kind of stuff.
Just google it right away.
So, it's not cheating, it's a skill.
Don't be afraid to copy and paste code.
I see a lot of people online saying don't
copy and paste this, blah, blah, blah,
whatever.
Just copy and paste it.
Make your stuff work and then work
backwards to see how it works, right?
That's fine too.
Like I program by
StackOverflow all the time.
[LAUGH] Again, that's a skill as well,
so definitely do that.
If you're not familiar with StackOverflow,
that's a website where you can go in and
ask programming questions and
people will answer.
It's old enough at this point, that most
of the questions you're going to have.
Plenty of other people have
had these questions before.
So, if you just like search for it on
StackOverflow, it'll probably come up.
So, that's a great resource,
you should definitely be checking out
StackOverflow as we go through things.
Be sure to ask dumb questions,
if it's not today to someone else.
You can always reach out to me on Twitter,
my direct messages are always open.
So please ask lots of questions
to anyone that can answer them.
And [COUGH] for me personally,
like I can be a bit of a slow learner.
And so for me, it's repeatedly
exposing myself to information.
Like the third or
fourth time that I see it or google it or
find it on StackOverflow, that's when
it finally like sinks into my brain.
So if you're like me, then just continue
to expose yourself to that information.
And maybe hopefully,
someday it'll sink in or
you'll just get really good at
googling that one web page.
So, what's really difficult about
learning to code is specifically with web
development, is you have to learn a lot
of things all at once in order for
just kind of get like a basic layer.
And it's really tough because you
have to kind of ignore some things.
We're just gonna throw
a bunch of stuff at you, and
parts of it you're just
gonna have to ignore and
just realize that you're gonna come back
later and more deeply understand things.
I get this with some students that they
wanna understand every piece as it goes
together and there's some parts that
are just not worth learning right now.
And that's really tough for some people
to say ignore that, and they're like no,
I don't wanna ignore it,
I wanna learn that right now.
And you have to recognize that your
brain only has so much capacity for
shoving stuff in it all at once.
And so,
if you start shoving it minor details,
you're kind of precluding yourself from
right now learning more important things.
Again, I would compare this to learning a
foreign language because in order to like
actually have a full conversation
with someone in a foreign language,
you have to understand actually
quite a bit of stuff, right?
You have to understand like grammatical
structures and syntax and conjugations and
agreements and those kinds of things and
it's kind of the same with programming.
You have to understand this whole set of
things before you can kind of put pieces
together.
So definitely, what I'm trying not,
trying to do too today is,
have you ever seen that picture,
it's like how to draw an owl.
[LAUGH] It's like draw a circle, and
then step two is draw the rest of the owl.
[LAUGH] I'm trying not to do that today.
So hopefully, what I'm going to
present you with it is like,
here is a mostly complete and
now just draw the eyes.
I want to learn things like that.
We're kinda have to accept, I drew most of
the elf for you in the first place, and
eventually you'll learn
how to do that later.
That's kind of the methodology for today.
Yeah, lastly,
this is not a get-rich-quick scheme.
And I get that quite a bit as well from
people learning how to code as they
want to get like a Google job
making $500,000 a year today and
it's like, this is actually a lot of work.
And despite, the fact that it doesn't
require you going to a university for
four years and getting that
certificate and that kind of stuff,
it's still a ton of work.
It requires a lot of investment, so
be prepared to work hard like this is
not something that's gonna make
you rich overnight, so that too.
And entry level jobs are out there,
but you're gonna have to compete and
work hard for him.
So, it's possible, you should definitely
try, I think, but it is hard.
So, The last thing I wanna say is just
kind of like how I structured this course.
And this is coming from a lot of
iterations from teaching a lot of these
workshops.
This used to be more structured towards
like exercises, like almost like homework,
and homework that just pains me to say,
cuz I hate homework.
[LAUGH] I was not very good at
homework when I was in college.
So, I found that when I gave
these exercises to people,
a lot of times they would just like look
at it as like I don't know where to start,
I don't know where to do this.
And it actually just bore, like a lot of
frustration out of people rather than
actually people like sitting there and
learning.
So, this workshop is more oriented
towards experimentation and playing so
rather than having like a clear objective,
I present you with a bunch of code.
And then, I was like, okay, now just
mess around with it and break it and
unbreak it.
And try doing this and refreshing and
all these kinds of different things,
and then we have a couple of big projects.
And that's kind of where we'll
you'll actually get in and
like actually write things by yourself but
during the course, in fact,
we'll get to that in just a second.
There's actually live code inside of
this website that you can just play with
directly which will be
hopefully beneficial for you.
This is how I think,
I would have preferred to learn,
so I'm hoping that this will work for
you as well.